---
title: Ch. 9 of Ralf Schindler
draft: false
tags: 
date:
---
 
## Problem 9.1
(a) May assume that $X_0\supseteq X_1\supseteq \dots$ by taking intersections.

Let $$f(n) = \begin{cases}
0 &\text{if }\forall m,n\in X_m \\
1 & \text{if } n\not\in X_0\\
m+2 & \text{where }m = max\{m\mid n\in X_m\}
\end{cases}$$

Since $F$ is a p-point, there is $Y\in F$ s.t. $F$ is constant or finite to one on $Y$. Notice $f$ cannot be constant on $n\geq 1$, since then $Y$ would be disjoint from some element not in $F$. If $f$ is constant on $0$, then $Y - X_n = \emptyset$ for all $n$. If $f$ is finite to one on $Y$, then $Y - X_n = \bigcup_{0<m\leq n+2}X_m$ which is finite. $\Box$

(b) Let $Y_n = \bigcup_{m\geq n}X_m$ and apply (a). Then the case that $f$ is constant on $0$ cannot happen as $\bigcap_nY_n = \emptyset$. Then there is  $Y$ s.t. $f$ is finite to one on $Y$, then $Y \cap X_n$ is finite for all $n$.

If in addition $F$ is selective, let 

$$\begin{aligned}
f: Y&\to \omega\\
m&\mapsto n \text{if }m\in Y\cap X_n
\end{aligned}$$

By $F$ is selective, there is $X\subseteq Y$ s.t. $f$ is one-to-one on $X$, then the conclusion holds for $X$. $\Box$

---
## Problem 9.2 
(a) Consider the partition $\{[n,n+1)\mid n\in \mathbb{Z}\}$ of $\mathbb{R}$. If none of $f^{-1}[n,n+1)$ is in $F$, apply 9.1 $b$ and we are done.

Otherwise if say $f^{-1}[n,n+1)$ is in $F$, divide $[n,n+1)$ into infinitely many intervals and repeat the process. 

Eventually, either we get an interval $I$ with partition $I_n$ s.t. $f^{-1}(I)\in F$ and $f^{-1}(I_n)\not\in F$ for all $n$ and we are done by 9.1 (b), or we have $I_0\supseteq I_1\dots$ s.t. $f^{-1}(I_n)\in F$. May assume that $\bigcap I_n = \emptyset$.

Apply 9.1 (a) there is $Y\in F$ s.t. $Y - f^{-1}(I_n)$ is finite for all $n$, then in each $I_n - I_{n+1}$ there are only finitely many elements in $f[Y]$ and we are done. $\Box$

(b)For any $f:\omega\to \omega$ monotone, consider $g(n) = m$ where $f(m)\leq n<f(m+1)$, this is a finite to one function and since $F$ is a q-point, there is $X\in F$ s.t. $g|_X$ is one-to-one this means that $|X\cap f(n)|\leq n$. $\Box$

---
## Problem 9.3
Remark: in the terminology of [Mathias' paper](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0003484377900067), this shows that a Ramsey ultrafilter is a happy family.

(a) Suffice to show that if $X_0\supseteq X_1\supseteq\dots$ for $X_i\in F$, then there is $Y\in F$ s.t. $Y = \{a_0<a_1<\dots\}$ and $a_{n+1}\in X_{a_n}$.

By 9.1(a) let $Z\in F$ be s.t. $Z - X_n$ is finite for all $n$, define $$\begin{aligned}
g:\omega &\to \omega\\
n&\mapsto max\{Z - X_n\}
\end{aligned}$$
Case 1: $Y_n = (g(n),g(n+1)] = \emptyset$ for cofinitely many $n$, this means that $g(n) = g(n+1)$ for $n\geq m$ for some $m$. i.e. $Z\cap X_m$ is constant for $m$ large enough. Then let $Y$ be $Z\cap X_m$ and we are done.

Case 2: For infinitely many $n$, $Y_n = (g(n),g(n+1)] \neq \emptyset$. Then we may assume that $Y_n= (g(n),g(n+1)]$ is not empty for all $n$ by redefining $g$. By 9.1 (b) there is $Z'$ s.t. there is exactly one $m\in Z'$ s.t. $g(n)\leq m<g(n+1)$. Say $Z' = \{m_0<m_1<\dots\}$, then one of $\{m_{2n}\mid n\in \omega\}, \{m_{2n+1}\mid n\in \omega\}$ is in $F$, call it $Z^*$. Let $Y = Z\cap Z^*$, then as $m_{n+2}\in X_{g(n)+1}\subseteq X_{m_n}$, we are done. $\Box$

(b) Let $Y_n = \bigcap\{X_s\mid max(s)\leq n\}$, by (a) fine $f:;\omega\to \omega$ s.t. $f(n+1)\in Y_{f(n)}$. Then let $Z = \{f(n)\mid n\in \omega\}\in F$. $s$ is s.t. $ran(s)\subseteq Z$, then $s(n) = f(m+1)$ for some $m+1\geq n$. i.e. $max(s|_n)\leq f(m)$ and hence $s(n) = f(m+1)\in Y_{f(m)}\subseteq X_{s|n}$. $\Box$

---
## Problem 9.4
Proceed as hinted, let $\{X^\alpha_n\mid n<\omega\}$ $\alpha<\omega_1$ be an enumeration of all infinite partition of $\omega$. 

Recursively construct $Y_\alpha,\alpha<\omega_1$ s.t. $Y_\beta - Y_\alpha$ finite if $\beta >\alpha$, and $$Y_{\alpha+1 } = \begin{cases}Y_\alpha\cap X^\alpha_n\text{ for some }n \text{s.t.} Y_\alpha\cap X^\alpha_n\text{ is infinite.} &\text{if such $n$ exists}\\
\text{some set s.t. }|Y_{\alpha+1}\cap X^\alpha_n|\leq 1 &\text{otherwise}\end{cases}$$

Let $U$ be the filter generated by $Y_\alpha,\alpha<\omega_1$. $U$ is an ultrafilter since for arbitrary infinite and coinfinite set $X\subseteq U$, it is enumerated as some $X_i^{\alpha}$, then $Y_\alpha$ either is contained in $X$ or intersectes with $X$ finitely.

The for any partition of $\omega$ into $X_i^\alpha$ where $X_i^\alpha\not\in U$, then for $Y_\alpha$, clause 1 cannot happen and thus $Y_{\alpha+1}$ satisfies the requirement.$\Box$

---
## Problem 9.6
(a) Consider the following family of dense set for $f\in \omega^\omega$, $n\in \omega$: $$D_{f,n} = \{t\in \mathbb{P}\mid \exists m>n,t(m)>f(m)\land m\in dom(t)\}$$

(b)  For any nice name $\tau\in (Fn(\alpha,\omega))^{V[G]}$, by c.c.c. $\tau$ is a name of $Fn(\omega\times M,\omega)$, $M\subseteq \alpha$ is countable. Since $Fn(\omega\times M,\omega)$ and $\omega^{<\omega}$ are forcing equivalent, may assume $\tau$ is $\omega^{<\omega}$ name. Let $\{p_i\mid i\in \omega\}$ enumerate $\omega^{<\omega}$, find $q_i\leq p_i$ s.t. $q_i\Vdash \tau(i) = j_i$. Define $g:i\mapsto j_i$, $g$ is a function in $V$. Since there is no $p$ s.t. $p\Vdash \forall m>n, \tau(m)>g(m)$ as there is an extension of $p = p_i$ that forces $p\tau(i) = j_i$ by construction. Hence $\tau_G$ is not dominating real. $\Box$

---
## Problem 9.7
$V[G]\models \aleph_1 = b<\alpha$: Since $Fn(\alpha,2)$ does not add dominating real, $V\cap \omega^{\omega}$ is an unbounded family in $V[G]$ of size $\omega_1$.

$V[G]\models \alpha\leq d$: Let $F\subseteq (\omega^\omega)^{V[G]}$ be a family of size $|F|<\alpha$, we show that it is not a dominating family. Let $h:|F|\times \omega\to \omega$ be such that $\{\lambda n. h(\beta,n)\mid \beta<\alpha\} =F$. Let $\tau$ be a name of $h$, then there is $W_0\subseteq \alpha$ s.t. $|W_0|\leq |F|$ and $\tau$ is a $Fn(W_0,w)$ name. Fix $W_0\subseteq W\subseteq \alpha$ s.t. $|\alpha-W| = \aleph_0$. We hence have $$Fn(W,2)\times Fn(\omega,2)\cong Fn(\alpha,2)$$ 
And $V[G] = V[H][K]$ where $H,K$ are generic filter of $Fn(W,2) Fn(\omega,2)$ respectively. As $h\in V[H]$, there is an unbounded real over $F$ in $V[H][K]$. Hence $F$ is not dominating. $\Box$

---
## Problem 9.8
$$D_f: = \{(x,n)\mid \exists n(x,n)\leq (f',n)\land \forall m\geq n f'(m) = f(m)\}$$
is dense.

---
## Problem 9.9
(a) It follows from the fact that any two condition $(s,X), (s,Y)$ is compatible. Hence any antichain in $\mathbb{M}$ gives rise to an antichain in $2^{<\omega}$, which we know is c.c.c.

(b) $$D_X: = \{(s,Y)\mid Y\subseteq X\}$$ is dense for all $X\in F$.

---
## Problem 9.10

(a) Let $X$ be a set s.t. neither $X$ or its complement is in $\mathcal{F}$. Let $x$ be the Mathias generic real and define $c$ as $c(n) = 1$ iff the $n$-th element of $x$ is in $X$.

We show that $c$ is Cohen generic, that is to show for each $D$ dense in Cohen forcing, $$\{(s,Y)\mid (s,Y)\Vdash \exists n, \dot{c}|_n\in D\}$$ is dense in Mathias forcing. 
i.e. for any $D$ dense in Cohen forcing, $(s,Y)$ we show that there is $t\in D$ and $(s',Y')\leq (s,Y)$ forcing $t\subseteq \dot{c}$. 

Now given $D$ and $(s,Y)$, define $t_0$ as $t_0(n)=1$ iff the $n$-th element of $s$ is in $X$. Take $t\leq t_0$ in $D$ and since $Y$ intersects both $X$ and $\omega-X$ infinitely, we can design $(s',Y')\leq (s,Y)$ s.t.  $t(n)=1$ iff the $n$-th element of $s'$ is in $X$. This would force $t\subseteq \dot{c}$. 

(b) We can show that the 9.1 (b) is actually an equivalence, both for $p$-point and selective filter.

If it is not a $p$-point, pick a partition $X_n,n\in \omega$ of $\omega$ s.t. $X_n\not\in F$ and any $X\in F$ does not intersect every $X_n$ finitely. If $x$ is the Mathias generic real, then $x - X_n$ is finite by a genericity argument, let $X_m^*,m\in \omega$ enumerate those $X_n$ s.t. $X_n\cap x\neq \emptyset$. Define $g:m\mapsto |X_m^*\cap x|-1$. We show that this is a Cohen real. 

For any $(s,X)$, let $X_{n_1}\dots X_{n_m}$ be the sets that intersects $s$, and hence $\forall n'\geq n_m+1, X_n'\cap s = \emptyset$. Define $t:m\to \omega$ as $i\mapsto |X_{n_i}\cap s| - 1$. Find $t'\supseteq t$ in $D$. Notice $X$ intersects infinitely many $X_n$ infinitely, let $Y_m,m\in \omega$ enumerate those $X_n$ where $n$ is greater than $n_m$. Hence we can find $s'\supset s$ s.t. for $i\in dom(t')\setminus dom(t)$, $t':i\mapsto Y_{i+1 - |dom(t)|}$. Now let $X'$ be $X$ minus all $X_n$ that intersects $s'$. Then $(s',X')$ forces $t'\subseteq \dot{c}$.

If it is not a $q$-point, the argument is essentially the same except that in the generic argument, you look at $X_n$ whose intersection with $X$ is sufficiently large instead of infinite. $\Box$

---
## Problem 9.11
Pick a partition $X_n,n\in \omega$ of $\omega$ s.t. $X_n\not\in F$ and any $X\in F$ does not intersect every $X_n$ finitely. If $x$ is the Mathias generic real, then $x - X_n$ is finite, let $X_m^*,m\in \omega$ enumerate those $X_n$ s.t. $X_n\cap x\neq \emptyset$. Define $g:m\mapsto max(X_m^*\cap x)$. We show that this is a dominating real. 

For any $(s,X)$ and $f\in \omega^\omega\cap V$, let $m$ be s.t. $\forall n\geq m, X_n\cap s = \emptyset$. We have that $$Y = \bigcup_{n\geq m}X_n - \{\text{the first }f(n)\text{-th element of}X_n\}\in U$$
Since $\bigcup_{n\in \omega}\{\text{the first }f(n)\text{-th element of}X_n\}\not\in U$. Then $(s,Y)$ thinks $\dot{g}$ dominates $f$. $\Box$ 