2024-11-03  21:56
Tags: #Course/Sem/Measure_Theoretic_Probability #Measure_Theory 

For a sequence of i.i.d. variables $X_{1},\dots,X_{k}$, a tail set is a set in $\bigcap_{k}\sigma(X_{k},X_{k+1},\dots)$. In other words, it is a set where arbitrary finite random variable does not matter. 


>**Theorem (Kolmogorov 0-1 Law)** For any tail set $A$, $p(A) = 0$ or 1. 

Proof 
First use the definition of $\sigma(X_{1}\dots)$ to check that it is the $\sigma$ field generated by $\mathcal{F}_{0} = \bigcup_{k}\sigma(X_{1},\dots,X_{k})$.

Second, since $A$ is a tail set, it is in $\sigma(X_{k},\dots)$, for arbitrary $k$. Hence $A$ is independent of $\sigma(X_{1}\dots X_{k-1})$, for arbitrary $k$. Hence $A$ is independent of $\mathcal{F}_{0}$, a $\pi$ system generating $\sigma(X_{1}\dots)$. This entails that $A$ is independent of $\sigma(X_{1}\dots)$ and in particular, itself!

Hence $p(A) = p(A)^{2}$ and the conclusion follows.

----

An application of Kolmogorov 0-1 Law.

>**Theorem** If $\mathcal{U}$ is an ultrafilter on $\omega$, then $\mathcal{U}$ is not Lesbegue measurable per Lesbegue measure on $2^{\omega}$.

Here, the Lesbegue measure on $2^{\omega}$ refers to the measure generated by $\lambda(\{s\mid t\subseteq s\}) = \frac{1}{2^{len(t)+1}}$ for arbitrary $t\in 2^{<\omega}$.

Proof It is not easy to show that we can take each dimension of the cantor space as an independent random variable. Assume for contradiction the the ultrafilter is measurable, then it is a tail set. Hence it either has probability 1 or 0. Consider the map $T$ that point wise flips the cantor set, then it is a measure preserving map and hence $p(\mathcal{U}) = p(T[\mathcal{U}])$. But their complement is the whole space. This is a contradiction. 

## Reference