---
title: Measure and Category Ch.4 Baire Property
draft: false
tags:
  - "#measure_and_category"
  - "#Topology"
date:
---
*Definition* A set $A\subseteq \mathbb{R}$ has the property of Baire if there is open $U$ and meagre $M$ s.t. $A = U\Delta M$.

*Theorem 4.4* $A$ has the Baire property iff it can be wrtten as $G_{\delta}$ set union a meagre set, (or a $F_{\delta}$ set minus a meagre set.)

Proof The key is that the closure of a nowhere dense set is still no where dense. Hence if $A = U\Delta M$, $M$ is covered by a $F_{\delta}$ set $N$. Then $$
U\Delta M = [(U - N)\Delta(U\cap N)]\Delta(M\Delta N) 
 = (U - N)\Delta [(U\Delta M)\cap N]
$$
$(U - N)$ is $G_{\delta}$ and $[(U\Delta M)\cap N]$ is meagre and disjoint from $(U - N)$. Hene $U\Delta M = (U - N)\cup [(U\Delta M)\cap N]$.

Notice how this theorem parallel the decomposition for measurable sets here [[Measure and Category Ch.3 Lebesgue Measure]]. The sigma algebra of Baire sets is the sigma algebra generated by Borel sets and meagre sets.

---
Now notice that any open set $U$ can be decomposed by $U = G - \overline{N}$, $G$ is regular open and $N$ is nowhere dense. That's because $N = \dot{\overline{U}} - U$ is a nowhere dense set, and $\dot{\overline{U}} - \overline{N}\supseteq \dot{\overline{U}} - (U^{-\cdot - }-H) = H$.

It follows that every Baire set can be represented as $G\Delta M$ where $G$ is regular open and $M$ is dense. Moreover, such representation would be unique for any space where non empty open set is not meagre. For suppose $G_1\Delta M_1 = G_{2}\Delta M_{2}$, then $G_{2}- \overline{G_{1}}\subseteq G_1\Delta G_2 = M_{1}\Delta G_{2}$. Hence $G_{2}- \overline{G_{1}}$ is meagre and open, thus empty. Hence $G_{2}\subseteq \dot{\overline{G_{1}}} = G_{1}$. A similar argument gives the other side. 

Moreover, by a checking of Vienn Diagram, we can easily see that if $A_{1} = G_{1}\Delta M_{1}$ and $A_{2} = G_{2}\Delta M_{2}$, then $A_{1}\cap A_{2}\equiv_{\text{meagre}}G_{1}\cap G_{2}$ and $\mathbb{R} - A_{1} \equiv_{\text{meagre}} \mathbb{R} - G_{1}$. Hence the function $f$ mapping a Baire set $A$ to the regular open set in the regular open decomposition is a representative choosing map that is congruential to intersection and complement.

Hence the algebra $\mathcal{B}/\equiv_{\text{meagre}}$  can be viewed as $\{[f(A)]\mid A\in \mathcal{B}\} = \{[G]\mid G\text{ is regular open}\}$. Again compare this to [[Measure and Category Ch.3 Lebesgue Measure]]. I expect this perspective to be useful studying the forcing with random reals and Cohen reals.[[Random Real and Cohen Real]]

## Reference