---
title: Reviewing for some basic results in DST
draft: true
tags: 
date:
---
### Product of Polish spaces
For two metric spaces $(X,d)$ and $(Y,e)$, the topology of their product space is generated by the metric $d\times e$ where
$$d\times e((x_1,y_1),(x_2,y_2)) = max\{d(x_1,x_2),e(y_1,y_2)\}$$
That's because for each ball $U_{d\times e}(x,y)$, it is $U_d(x)\times U_e(y)$ and thus open in the product space.

The product of two Polish spaces are still Polish. This is easily verified. 

Note that for infinite products of metric spaces, defining the product metric as the maximum won't work as this time their maximum might be infinite. The correct way of defining metric for countable product is 
$$d(x,y) = \sum_{n\in \mathbb{N}}\frac{d_n(x_n,y_n)}{2^n(1 + d_n(x_n,y_n))}$$
This can be shown by noticing the topology generated by $d_n$ is equivalent to that by $\frac{d_n}{1+d_n}$. The function is applied to ensure that every element in the sequence is bounded, so the sum converges.

This means the countable product of Polish spaces is still Polish.

In the setting of Moschovakis, a product space refers specifically to finite products of perfect Polish spaces and $\omega$

----
### The proper containment relation of point classes
In this section we show that the Hierarchy of Borel point classes are proper. We show theorem 1D.4 in Moschovakis.

First, the fact relies on the parametrization theorem for Borel point classes.

**1D.1 For $\boldsymbol{\Sigma}^0_1$ of space $X$, for every perfect product space $Y$, then there is $G\subseteq Y\times X$ s.t.
$$P\in \boldsymbol{\Sigma}^0_1 \text{ iff } \exists y\in Y, P = G_y$$
Here $G_y = \{x\mid (x,y)\in G\}$ refers to the $y$-section of $G$.**

Proof Let $U_n,V_n$ be an enumeration of the basis balls of $X,Y$ respectively. Let $\sigma$ be a map from $2^{<\omega}$ to $\mathbb{N}$ s.t. 
1. $\overline{V_{\sigma(s)}}\subseteq V_{\sigma(s')}$ if $s\subseteq s'$.
2. If $s,s'$ are incompatible, then $\overline{V_{\sigma(s)}}\cap \overline{V_{\sigma(s')}} = \emptyset$. 
3. $d({V_{\sigma(s)}})< \frac{1}{2^{len(s)}}$.
Consider $$(x,y)\in G \text{ iff } \exists s = (t_0,\dots t_n)\in 2^{<\omega} s.t. t_n= 1, y\in V_{\sigma(s)}, x\in U_n$$
$G$ is open, so each section of it is open. Conversely, if $U$ is open in $X$, then there is $A\subseteq \mathbb{N}$ s.t. $U = \bigcup_{n\in A}U_n$. Let $t_n = 1$ iff $n\in A$, $y_n$ be the center of $V_{\sigma(t_0\dots t_n)}$, then $y_n$ form a Cauchy seqeunce and hence converges. Let $y$ be the limit point of $y_n$, it is easy to verify that $G_y = U$. $\Box$

It follows that for every Borel point class $\boldsymbol{\Sigma}^0_n, \boldsymbol{\Pi}^0_n$ are $Y$-parametrizable for each perfect product space $Y$, i.e. there is $G\subseteq Y\times X$ s.t.
$$P\in \boldsymbol{\Sigma}^0_n \text{ iff } \exists y\in Y, P = G_y$$
More generally, if point class $\Gamma$ in $X\times Z$ is $Y$ parametrizable, then $\exists^Z \Gamma$ in $X$ is $Y$ parametrizable.

**1D.3 If $\Gamma$, as a point class of $Y$ is $Y$ parametrizable, and for $G$ $\Gamma$ in $Y^2$ the diagonal $G = \{y\mid G(y,y)\}$ is in $\Gamma$, then there is $P\in \Gamma$ not in $\neg \Gamma$.**
Proof. Pick $G\subseteq Y\times Y$ s.t. 
$$P\in \Gamma\text{ iff } \exists y\in Y, P = G_y$$
Then consider $P = \{y\mid G(y,y)\}$, it is in $\Gamma$. But as $$A\in \neg \Gamma\text{ iff }\exists y\{x\mid \neg G(x,y)\} = A$$
It is impossible that $P\in \neg \Gamma$.$\Box$

It follows that the inclusion of point classes on Polish spaces are proper.

----



