---
title: Measure and Category Ch.3 Lebesgue Measure
draft: false
tags:
  - "#measure_and_category"
  - "#Measure_Theory"
date:
---
 Here we collect some more properties of lebesgue measure. A set is $F_{\delta}$ if it is a countable union of the closed sets. A set is $G_{\delta}$ if it is a countable intersection of the open sets.

*Theorem 3.15*($AC_\omega$) A set $A$ is measurable iff it can be written as a $F_{\delta}$ set unions a null set. (or as a $G_{\delta}$ set minus a null set.)

Proof. Remember a set $A$ is Lesbegue measurable iff for each set $E$, $\lambda^{*}(E) = \lambda^{*}(A) + \lambda^{*}(E - A)$. Now for each $n\in \mathbb{N}$, pick an open set $U_{n} \supseteq A$ and $\lambda^{*}(U_{n}) - \lambda^{*}(A) \leq \frac{1}{n}$. Take $U = \bigcap_{n}U_{n}$, it is a $G_{\delta}$ set. Now $G_{\delta}-A = \bigcap_{n}(U_{n} - A)$, which is an countable intersection of some Lesbegue measurable set, each with measure less than $\frac{1}{n}$. Hence it is null. $\Box$

So, the Lebesgue measurable sets are generated by null sets together with Borel sets.

The further question is that whether a Lesbegue measurable set can be written as the union of an open set and a null set. If so, there is an obvious parallel between the definition of Baire property.

----

Now we start to discuss the density of Lebesgue measurable sets. 

*Definition* A measurable set $E\subseteq \mathbb{R}$ is said to have density $d$ at $x\in \mathbb{R}$, if
$$
\lim_{ h \to 0 } \frac{m(E\cap [x-h,x+h])}{2h}  = d$$

Now let's denote $\phi(E)$ as $\{x\mid E\text{ has density 1  at } x\}$. Now observe that $x\in \phi(\mathbb{R} - E)$ iff 
$$
\lim_{ h \to 0 } \frac{m( [x-h,x+h] - E)}{2h}  = 1$$
iff 
$$
\lim_{ h \to 0 } \frac{m(E \cap [x-h,x+h])}{2h}  = 0$$
Hence $x\in \phi(\mathbb{R} - E)$ iff $E$ has density $0$ at $x$.

The following theorem states that for a measurable set ,it has density 1 almost everywhere.

*Theorem 3.20*(Lebesgue Density Theorem) For any measurable set $E\subseteq \mathbb{R}$, $m(E\Delta \phi(E))=0$.

Proof. 

This is a special case of the differentiation theorem. Wait for the MTP course to proceed.

Moreover, let $A\equiv_{\text{null}}B$ iff $A\Delta B$ is null. Then $\phi$ can be seen as a representative picking function for the equivalent class of this relation, and it preserve intersection and respects inclusion:

1. $\phi(A) \equiv_{\text{null}}A$.
2. $A\equiv_{\text{null}}B$ implies $\phi(A) = \phi(B)$.
3. $\phi$ preserves intersection: $\phi(A_{1})\cap \phi(A_{2}) = \phi(A_{1}\cap A_{2})$.
4. $\phi$ preserves countable intersection.

However, $\phi$ does not necessarily preserves complement, but it does satisfy: $\mathbb{R} - \phi(A) \equiv_{\text{null}}\phi(\mathbb{R} - A)$.
Hence $\mathcal{B}/\equiv_{\text{null}}$ can be seen as the boolean algebra $\{[\phi(A)]\mid A\in \mathcal{B}\}$.

---



## Reference